What foods can I eat if I have diabetes?
You may worry that having diabetes means going without foods you enjoy. The good news is that you can still eat your favorite foods, but you might need to eat smaller portions or enjoy them less often. Your health care team will help create a diabetes meal plan for you that meets your needs and likes.

The key to eating with diabetes is to eat a variety of healthy foods from all food groups, in the amounts your meal plan outlines.


Vegetables
Load up! Vegetables are among the healthiest forms of carbs. You’ll get lots of fiber. And unless you add salt or fat, they have very little of both.

Best Choices for diabetes

Fresh veggies -- raw, lightly steamed, roasted, or grilled
Plain frozen vegetables, lightly steamed
Greens such as kale, spinach, and arugula
Tabouli and other types of nutrient-rich salads
Low-sodium or unsalted canned vegetables
Go for a variety of colors: dark greens, red or orange (think of carrots or red peppers), whites and yellows (onions), and even purple (eggplants). 
Fresh fruit
Plain frozen fruit or fruit canned without added sugar
Jam, jelly, or preserves with little or no sugar
Applesauce with no added sugar
Plant-based proteins such as beans, nuts, seeds, or fresh tofu
Fish and seafood
Chicken and other poultry
Drinks
When you down your favorite drink, you may get more calories or fat than you bargained for. Read the labels so you know what’s in a serving.
Coffee, black or with added low-fat milk and sugar substitute
Water
Unsweetened tea with or without a slice of lemon
Sweet lassi with low sugar
Light beer, small amounts of wine, or non-fruity mixed drinks
Zero-calorie sodas
Eggs
If you eat meat, keep it low in fat. Trim the skin off of poultry. Try to include some plant-based protein, even if you're not a vegetarian or vegan. You’ll get nutrients and fiber that aren’t in animal products.
Natural sources of vegetable fats, such as nuts, seeds, or avocados (high in calories, so keep portions small)
Foods that give you omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, tuna, or mackerel
Canola, grapeseed, or olive oils

If you have diabetes, try to keep your portions small. And keep it low in fat.

The best types of dairy products if you have diabetes are low-fat and nonfat options. These include low-fat Greek yogurt, nonfat milk, and various kinds of dairy milk alternatives (such as oat, almond, soy, or even macadamia milk). If you are unsure whether something has too much dairy in it, check the nutrition label for calcium. Your doctor can tell you how much you need each day. 

Other dairy products, like whole or 2% milk, creme fraiche, and high-fat cheeses can be bad for you if you have diabetes. Certain non-dairy alternatives, like solid margarine, are also not the best choice.


A diet rich in vegetables, fruits, and lean proteins can benefit a person with diabetes. At the same time, the person should limit their intake of white bread, sweets, and other highly refined foods.