Foods to avoid in Diabetes:
Worst Food:
Refined sugar
Drinks loaded with sugar
Deeply fried foods
White bread and White rice
Refined flour (Maida)
Sweetened high-fat yoghurt
Dried fruits
Fruit juices
Packaged snacks
Sweets, cakes, biscuits
Potatoes
Red meat
Coffee with cream or sugar
Flavored coffees and chocolate drinks
Regular sodas
Regular beer, fruity mixed drinks, dessert wines
Sweetened tea
Energy drinks
Fruit punch or other processed fruit-juice drinks
Partially hydrogenated foods
Solid margarines
Vegetable shortening
Red meat
Coconut oil
Palm oil
Bacon grease
Dairy Products
Fried meats
Higher-fat cuts of meat, such as ribs
Pork bacon
Regular cheeses
Poultry with skin
Deep-fried fish or tofu
Beans prepared with lard
Fats and Oils
They’re tough to resist. But it’s easy to get too much and gain unhealthy weight, which makes it harder to manage your diabetes. 
There are good fats (like unsaturated fats), bad fats (like trans fats), and saturated fats, which can be good or bad depending on how much you have.
Big portions of saturated fats are not the best for your health. But a little in your diet is OK. Some experts suggest you keep your saturated fat under 10% of your daily calories. Ask your doctor what your limit should be if you have diabetes.
Trans fats are bad for your heart. They’re so unhealthy that they are banned from most foods in the U.S. Check the ingredient list for anything that’s “partially hydrogenated,” even if the label says it has 0 grams of trans fat. When partially hydrogenated fats are made, they form trans fats.
Canned vegetables with lots of added sodium (or salt)
Veggies cooked with lots of added butter, cheese, or sauce
Pickles with high sodium
Sauerkraut, for the same reason as pickles. Limit them if you have high blood pressure.
Fruits
They give you the vitamins and minerals you need. Most of them are naturally low in fat and sodium. But they tend to have more carbs than vegetables do.
Try to limit highly processed starches, such as:
White rice and white flour
Naan bread made from refined flour
Fried yuca fries
Fried white-flour tortilla chips
Sweets